The Declaration of Independence 
IN CONGRESS, JULY 4,
1776 THE UNANIMOUS 
DECLARATION OF THE 
THIRTEEN UNITED 
STATES OF AMERAICA
        When  in  the  course  of  human  events,  it  becomes  necessary  for  one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the laws Nature and Nature¡¯s God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.
    We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that they are among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among them, deriving their just power from the consent of the governed. That whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their  safety  and  happiness.  Prudence,  indeed,  will  dictate  that governments long  established  should  not  be  changed  for  light  and  transient  causes;  and accordingly  all  experience  hath  shown  that  mankind  are  more  disposed  to suffer,  while  evils  are  sufferable,  than  t  right  themselves  by  abolishing  the forms  to  which  they  are  accustomed.  But  when  a  long  train  of  abuses  and usurpations,  pursuing  invariably  the  same  object  evinces  a  design  to  reduce 
them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such  government,  and  to  provide  new  guards  for  their  future  security.  Such has  been  the  patient  sufferance  of  these  Colonies;  and  such  is  now  the  necessity, which constrains them to alter their former systems of government.The history of the present King of Great Britain is usurpations, all having in direct object tyranny over these States. To prove this, let facts be submitted to a candid world. 
    He has refused his assent to laws, the most wholesome and necessary for 
the public good.
    He has forbidden his Governors to pass laws of immediate  and pressing 
importance,  unless  suspended  in  their  operation  till  his  assent  should  be 
obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend them. 
He has refused to pass other laws for the accommodation of large districts of 
people, unless those people would relinquish the right of representation in the 
Legislature, a right inestimable to them and formidable to tyrants only.
    He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, 
and distant from the depository of their public records, for the sole purpose of 
fatiguing them into compliance with his measures.
    He  has  dissolved  representative  houses  repeatedly,  for  opposing  with 
manly firmness his invasion on the rights of the people.
    He has refused for a long time, after such dissolution, to cause others to be 
elected  ;  whereby  the  legislative  powers,  incapable  of  annihilation,  have 
returned  to  the  people  at  large  for  their  exercise;  the  State  remaining  in  the 
meantime exposed to all the dangers of invasion from without and convulsion 
within.
    He  has  endeavored  to  prevent  the  population  of  these  states;  for  that 
purpose  obstructing  the  laws  of  naturalizing  of  foreigners;  refusing  to  pass 
others  to  encourage  their  migration  hither,  and  raising  the  condition  of  new 
appropriations of lands.
    He has obstructed the administration of justice, by refusing his assent of 
laws for establishing judiciary powers. 
    He  has  made  judges  dependent  on  his  will  alone,  for  the  tenure  of  their 
office, and the amount and payment of their salary. 
    He  has  erected  a  multitude  of  new  officers,  and  sent  hither  swarms  of 
officers to harass our people, and eat out our substances.
    He  has  kept  among  us,  in  times  of  peace,  standing  armies  without  the 
consent of our legislatures.
    He has affected to render the military independent of and superior to the 
civil power.
    He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to our 
constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his assent to their acts 
of pretended legislation.
    For quartering large bodies of armed troops among us;
    For  protecting  them,  by  a  mock  trial,  from  punishment  for  any  murder 
which they should commit on the inhabitants of these States. 
    For cutting off our trade with all parts of the world;
    For imposing taxes on us without our consent;
    For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of trial by jury;
    For transporting us beyond seas to be tried for pretended offenses;   
    For abolishing the free systems of English laws in a neighboring Province, 
establishing therein an arbitrary government, and enlarging its boundaries so 
as to render it at once an example and fit instrument for introducing the same 
absolute rule these Colonies;
    For  taking  away  our  Charters,  abolishing  our  most  valuable  laws,  and 
altering fundamentally the forms of our governments;
    For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring  themselves  invested 
with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.
    He has abdicated government here, by declaring us out of his protection 
and waging war against us.
    He  has  plundered  our  seas,  ravaged  our  coasts,  burnt  our  towns,  and 
destroyed the lives of our people.
    He  is  at  this  time  transporting  large  armies  of  foreign  mercenaries  to 
complete  the  works  of  death,  desolation  and  tyranny,  already  begun  with 
circumstances  of cruelty and perfidy scarcely parallel  in the most barbarous 
ages, and totally unworthy the head of a civilized nation. 
    He has constrained our fellow citizens  taken captive on the high seas to 
bear  arms  against  their  country,  to  become  the  executioners  of  their  friends 
and brethren, or to fall themselves by their hands.
    He has excited domestic insurrection amongst us, and has endeavored to 
bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian savages, whose 
known  rule  of  warfare,  is  an  undistinguished  destruction  of  all  ages,  sexes, 
and conditions.
    In every stage of these oppressions we have petitioned for redress in the 
most  humble  terms:  our  repeated  petition  have  been  answered  only  by 
repeated injury. A prince whose character is thus marked by every act which 
may define a tyrant is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.
    Nor have we been wanting in attention to our British brethren. We have 
warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend an 
unwarrantable   jurisdiction   over   us.   We   have   reminded   them   of   the 
circumstances  of  our  emigration  and  settlement  here.  We  have  appealed  to 
their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by the ties 
of our common kindred to disavow these usurpation, which would inevitably 
interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too have been deaf to the 
voice  of  justice  and  of  consanguinity.  We  must,  therefore,  acquiesce  in  the 
necessity, which denounces our separation, and hold them., as we hold the rest 
of mankind, enemies in war, in peace friends.
        We, therefore, the Representatives of the United States of America, in 
General Congress assembled , appealing to the supreme Judge of the world for 
the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the name, and by authority of the good 
people  of  these  Colonies,  solemnly  publish  and  declare,  That  these  United 
States  Colonies  and  Independent  States;  that  they  are  absolved  by  from  all 
allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them 
and  the  State,  they  have  full  power  to  levy  war,  conclude  peace,  contract 
alliances,  establish  commerce,  and  to  do  all  other  acts  and  things  which 
Independent States may of right do. And for the support of this declaration, 
with  a  firm  reliance  on  the  protection  of  Divine  Providence,  we  mutually 
pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. 
